Kk proofreading deployment2 (#4953)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments.md

title: "Environments"
url: /developerportal/deploy/environments/
weight: 5
description: "Lists the environments in which your app is deployed. Also the starting point for managing existing environments and further deployments."
tags: ["Deploy","App","Developer Portal"]
#To update these screenshots, you can log in with credentials detailed in How to Update Screenshots Using Team Apps.
---

## 1 Introduction

You can use the **Environments** page to access information about your environments, deploy packages, manage certificates and access restrictions, and more.

The **Environments** page has the following tabs:

* **Deploy**
    * Deployment Package Repository
    * Environments 

>     * Activity

Reviewer: "Custom Domains"

I also see "Access Restriction Profiles" for Technical Writing v4 app - to be listed here?

Reviewer 2: Access Restriction Profiles are already in the document (line 23).

> * **Custom Domain**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Custom Domains**
```

    * TLS Client Certificate Verification
* **Permissions**
    * [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/)

> * **Services**

Reviewer: "Services" tab has "Services" and "Activity" sections - to be listed as sub-items?

    
## 2 Deploy

In the **Deploy** tab, you can view information about your environment, as well as create, upload, delete, and deploy packages.

### 2.1 Deployment Package Repository

In the **Deployment Package Repository** section, you have an overview of all the available deployment packages with the following details:

> * Deployment package

Reviewer 2: Perhaps "Deployment package name" might be better, it isn't the whole package?

* Version of the deployment package
* Creation date of the deployment package
* Uploaded by

> * Expire date of the deployment package

Reviewer 2: Resolving my own typo 😀
```suggestion
* Expiry date of the deployment package
```

> {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/deployment-package.png" alt="The Deployment Package Repository section" >}}

Reviewer: Nice idea moving screenshot from start to below some key info

Reviewer 2: Image seems a bit old - headings are all caps and the buttons are round instead of square. If it is easy to get a new picture, we could update it, but the content is the same so not high priority!

You can perform the following actions in this section:

> * **Create a Package from Team Server** - select a branch to build the revision that it contains

Reviewer: Please verify these are en dashes and not hyphens

> * **Upload** - upload an *.mda* package file from your local device

Reviewer: ".mda" or "MDA" ?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure it matters - but technically I don't think it has to have the suffix `.mda` so perhaps MDA is better. Or just say "upload a deployment package from your local device" and avoid the issue entirely?

There seems to be an inconsistency across the site - 42 occurencies of `MDA` and 10 of `*.mda`. Nothing in our style guide at present.

(MDA = [Mendix Deployment Archive](https://d25bt5g8n19u8d.cloudfront.net/product-naming/other-terms/#mendix-deployment-archive)).

> * **Details**:

Reviewer 2: Missing "Delete" here!
```suggestion
* **Delete** – delete a deployment package which was previously uploaded or created for this app
* **Details**:
```

>     * View the package size, description, build output, and an overview of the environments that are currently running on this package

Reviewer 2: package runs in an environment, not the other way around. Correcting my own text!
```suggestion
    * View the package size, description, build output, and an overview of the environments that are currently running this package
```

    * Download the package
    * Delete the package

> * **Deploy** - transport the package from the Team Server to the selected environment

Reviewer: "Team Server" (no need for "the")

### 2.2 Environments

In the **Environments** section, you have an overview of all the available environments with the following details:

> * Environment name - for example, *Acceptance*

Reviewer: Italics for an example?

* **Prod** - if your node supports flexible environments, this indicates whether the environment is a production environment; this is set when the environment is first created

>     {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/deploy-flex-environments.png" alt="The Environments section with flexible environments" >}}

Reviewer 2: I really don't think we should combine the standard environments with the flexible environments. The formats are sufficiently different and have enough differences that I find having several bullets which are only for flexible environments makes it difficult to see at a glance what you can do. 

I would reverse this and go back to two separate sections. 

Reasoning:
1. They look very different
3. There is a PROD indicator for flexible environments
4. There is a Plan for flexible environments
5. There is a search box for flexible environments
6. You can sort flexible environments
7. You can't "Transport to Production" for flexible environments
8. Most customers have standard environments and do not need to know about the features of flexible environments.

We can discuss this if you think there is a middle way to clarify the documentation.

> * Environment status - indicated by the color of the checkmark by the environment name:

Reviewer: "checkmark" or "check mark" ?

Reviewer 2: Or just "check".
[MW](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/check)
> a mark typically ✓ placed beside an item to show it has been noted, examined, or verified.

If we go with "check mark" it needs a space according to [MS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/check-checkbox-check-mark)

And perhaps "next to the environment name" to avoid having two "by"s in the sentence performing different roles?

    * Green – there are no alerts
    * Orange – there is at least one warning alert, but no critical alerts
    * Red – there is at least one critical alert
    
    The environment status is cached; there can be a delay of up to five minutes before the status icon displays a change of status. To see the details of the alerts, click **Alerts**. For more information, see [Alerts](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/).
    
* Deployment package name - for example, *Main line-1.0.0.18.mda*
* Deployment package version - for example, *1.0.0.18*

> * **Runtime** - the Mendix Studio Pro version on which the app is built, for example, *9.5.0*

Reviewer: Version "on which" or "with which" ?

Italics for example?

Reviewer 2: This is horrible to try to explain.
If you build an app with Mendix version 9.5.0, you need to run it with the Runtime version 9.5.0. So the version numbers are the same, but you are not technically referring to Studio Pro in the UX but the runtime version.

So, that is why my original was a bit vague about what the runtime actually meant.

I am sort of hoping that one day you won't need a different runtime for every version of Mendix, but I don't think that will happen in a hurry!

* **Plan** - if your node supports flexible environments, this indicates the plan for this environment; for more information, see [Details](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/)
* The **URL** of the app - for example, `https://mytestapp.mendixcloud.com`

You can perform the following actions in this section:

* **Details** - for more information, see [Details](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/)
* **Transport to** – stage an environment to acceptance or production; this action is not available for flexible environments, where instead of staging an app, you deploy it directly to the target environment

    {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/deploy-environments.png" alt="The Environments section without flexible environments" >}}

> * **Setup Studios Deployment** - the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) can set the target environment to which apps will be deployed from Studio and Studio Pro; for more information, see [Studio Deployment Settings](/developerportal/deploy/studio-deployment-settings/)

Reviewer: Is this really "Setup" as a verb in the UI?

    {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/reorder-environments.gif" alt="Reordering environments in a list" >}}

### 2.3 Activity

In the **Activity** section, you can view a log of deployment activities performed on your environments. 

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/activity.png" alt="Sample activity log" >}}

If you are the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact), you can download a copy of the activity log by performing the following steps:

1. Click **Download to CSV**.
2. Select the period for which you want to download log entries. For **Custom Period**, you must enter a valid period using **Start Date** and **End Date**.

    {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/download-activity-log.png" alt="Sample custom period with a validation error" >}}

3. Click **Download**.

{{% alert color="info" %}}

> Operations carried out by the Mendix Operations Desk are not currently logged in the activity log.

Reviewer: What is this "Operations Desk" ? First time I've heard that. Defined in another doc?

Reviewer: It's not clear to me the relationship between these 2 sentences in the alert. The fact that there is a line break between them - while still in the alert - further complicates things IMO. I do not use or recommend adding line breaks between text in an alert. An alert should be compact and with direct coherent messaging. Are these 2 sentences related? If not, should they be 2 separate alerts?

Reviewer 2: The second sentence defines "Operations carried out by the Mendix Operations Desk". Since this is an internal name, then perhaps we should combine the information and get rid of the internal reference. See suggestion below.

> Operations carried out by the Mendix Operations Desk are not currently logged in the activity log.
> 
> These are activities which are performed on a customer's behalf only with written approval through a Mendix Support ticket. 

Reviewer 2: To resolve Adam's comment above,
```suggestion
Operations performed on a customer's behalf through an authorized Mendix support ticket are not currently logged in the activity log.
```

{{% /alert %}}

## 3 Custom Domain

> In the **Custom Domain** tab, you can manage your custom domain certificates on an application level, as well as see an overview of linked custom domains.

Reviewer: "on an application level" or "on the level of the application" or "at the application-level" ? A few factors here to consider.

When your Mendix app needs to be accessible via your own URL (for example, `https://myapp.mycompany.com/`), you must provide a custom SSL/TLS certificate for your domain, so that we can make your Mendix app accessible via a secure connection. For more information, see [Custom Domains](/developerportal/deploy/custom-domains/).

## 4 Access Restriction Profiles {#asp}

In the **Access Restriction Profiles** tab, you can manage custom access restriction profiles. These profiles can combine IP range filters and client certificate verification, so that any match on either the IP range or the client certificate will grant access. You can apply access restriction profiles to path-based access restrictions in specific environments of the application.

For more information on setting up access restriction profiles, see [Restrict Access for Incoming Requests](/developerportal/deploy/access-restrictions/).

## 5 Permissions {#permissions}

> In the **Permissions** tab, the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) and other team members who have the Manage Permissions permission can manage various permissions to the environments for each team member. Team members who have the Deploy, Publish, and Monitor permission can view the permissions.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to avoid "Manage Permissions permission" - it's a bit of a mouthful (or eyeful!). And perhaps replace one of the occurrences of "permission". This is somewhere that a UX writer/designer might help.
```suggestion
In the **Permissions** tab, the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) and other team members who have permission to Manage Permissions can manage access to the environments for each team member. Team members who have permission to Deploy, Publish, and Monitor can view the permissions.
```

For more information on managing node permissions, see [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/).

## 6 Services {#services}

In the **Services** tab, the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) can decide which custom services can be used in environments of this app.

The technical contact can only see services which have been licensed for their company. If the technical contact cannot enable the service, this means that it has previously been licensed but the license has expired.

> Team members who have the Deploy, Publish, and Monitor permission can see which services are enabled or disabled.

Reviewer 2: Might want to change this back if you accept the change above?

You can perform the following actions in this section:

* **Details** – for more information, see [Details](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/)
* **Setup Studios Deployment** – the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) can set the target environment to which apps will be deployed from Studio and Studio Pro; for more information, see [Studio Deployment Settings](/developerportal/deploy/studio-deployment-settings/)

    {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/setup-studios-target.png" alt="The Environments section with the Setup Studios Deployment button visible" >}}

* **Search** – you can use the **Search** box to find a specific environment
* Reordering environments - the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/collaborate/app-roles/#technical-contact) can reorder the environments by dragging them in the list, for example, to group environments of the same type together:

    {{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/reorder-environments.gif" alt="Reordering environments in a list" >}}

> ### 2.2.2 Without Flexible Environments

Reviewer 2: Hi Kasia,
Thanks for making the change.
I would put the _Standard Environments_ section first, since that is what 90% of customers will have. I would also call it something like **Standard Environments** rather than _Without Flexible Environments_ as it makes it sound like the customer has an inferior product. Flexible environments are only really used by companies who have a very complex infrastructure (PostNL for example) and isn't needed by most customers.

And similarly, change the language in the text - so just say "If your node has the standard set of environments" and remove the "If your node does not support flexible environments," bit.
